examples/csmsc/voc3/README.md, before:

# Multi Band MelGAN with CSMSC
This example contains code used to train a [Multi Band MelGAN](https://arxiv.org/abs/2005.05106) model with [Chinese Standard Mandarin Speech Copus](https://www.data-baker.com/open_source.html).
## Dataset
### Download and Extract
Download CSMSC from it's [official website](https://test.data-baker.com/data/index/TNtts/) and extract it to `~/datasets`. Then the dataset is in the directory `~/datasets/BZNSYP`.

### Get MFA Result and Extract
We use [MFA](https://github.com/MontrealCorpusTools/Montreal-Forced-Aligner) results to cut the silence in the edge of audio.
You can download from here [baker_alignment_tone.tar.gz](https://paddlespeech.bj.bcebos.com/MFA/BZNSYP/with_tone/baker_alignment_tone.tar.gz), or train your MFA model reference to [mfa example](https://github.com/PaddlePaddle/PaddleSpeech/tree/develop/examples/other/mfa) of our repo.

## Get Started
Assume the path to the dataset is `~/datasets/BZNSYP`.
Assume the path to the MFA result of CSMSC is `./baker_alignment_tone`.
Run the command below to
1. **source path**.
2. preprocess the dataset.
3. train the model.
4. synthesize wavs.
    - synthesize waveform from `metadata.jsonl`.
```bash
./run.sh
```
You can choose a range of stages you want to run, or set `stage` equal to `stop-stage` to use only one stage, for example, running the following command will only preprocess the dataset.
```bash
./run.sh --stage 0 --stop-stage 0
```
### Data Preprocessing
```bash
./local/preprocess.sh ${conf_path}
```
When it is done. A `dump` folder is created in the current directory. The structure of the dump folder is listed below.

```text
dump
├── dev
│   ├── norm
│   └── raw
├── test
│   ├── norm
│   └── raw
└── train
    ├── norm
    ├── raw
    └── feats_stats.npy
```
The dataset is split into 3 parts, namely `train`, `dev`, and `test`, each of which contains a `norm` and `raw` subfolder. The `raw` folder contains the log magnitude of the mel spectrogram of each utterance, while the norm folder contains the normalized spectrogram. The statistics used to normalize the spectrogram are computed from the training set, which is located in `dump/train/feats_stats.npy`.

Also, there is a `metadata.jsonl` in each subfolder. It is a table-like file that contains id and paths to the spectrogram of each utterance.

### Model Training
```bash
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=${gpus} ./local/train.sh ${conf_path} ${train_output_path}
```
`./local/train.sh` calls `${BIN_DIR}/train.py`.
Here's the complete help message.

```text
usage: train.py [-h] [--config CONFIG] [--train-metadata TRAIN_METADATA]
                [--dev-metadata DEV_METADATA] [--output-dir OUTPUT_DIR]
                [--ngpu NGPU]

Train a Multi-Band MelGAN model.

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --config CONFIG       Multi-Band MelGAN config file.
  --train-metadata TRAIN_METADATA
                        training data.
  --dev-metadata DEV_METADATA
                        dev data.
  --output-dir OUTPUT_DIR
                        output dir.
  --ngpu NGPU           if ngpu == 0, use cpu.
```

1. `--config` is a config file in yaml format to overwrite the default config, which can be found at `conf/default.yaml`.
2. `--train-metadata` and `--dev-metadata` should be the metadata file in the normalized subfolder of `train` and `dev` in the `dump` folder.
3. `--output-dir` is the directory to save the results of the experiment. Checkpoints are saved in `checkpoints/` inside this directory.
4. `--ngpu` is the number of gpus to use, if ngpu == 0, use cpu.

### Synthesizing
`./local/synthesize.sh` calls `${BIN_DIR}/../synthesize.py`, which can synthesize waveform from `metadata.jsonl`.
```bash
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=${gpus} ./local/synthesize.sh ${conf_path} ${train_output_path} ${ckpt_name}
```
```text
usage: synthesize.py [-h] [--generator-type GENERATOR_TYPE] [--config CONFIG]
                     [--checkpoint CHECKPOINT] [--test-metadata TEST_METADATA]
                     [--output-dir OUTPUT_DIR] [--ngpu NGPU]

Synthesize with GANVocoder.

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --generator-type GENERATOR_TYPE
                        type of GANVocoder, should in {pwgan, mb_melgan,
                        style_melgan, } now
  --config CONFIG       GANVocoder config file.
  --checkpoint CHECKPOINT
                        snapshot to load.
  --test-metadata TEST_METADATA
                        dev data.
  --output-dir OUTPUT_DIR
                        output dir.
  --ngpu NGPU           if ngpu == 0, use cpu.
```

1. `--config` multi band melgan config file. You should use the same config with which the model is trained.
2. `--checkpoint` is the checkpoint to load. Pick one of the checkpoints from `checkpoints` inside the training output directory.
3. `--test-metadata` is the metadata of the test dataset. Use the `metadata.jsonl` in the `dev/norm` subfolder from the processed directory.
4. `--output-dir` is the directory to save the synthesized audio files.
5. `--ngpu` is the number of gpus to use, if ngpu == 0, use cpu.

## Fine-tuning
Since there is no `noise` in the input of Multi-Band MelGAN, the audio quality is not so good (see [espnet issue](https://github.com/espnet/espnet/issues/3536#issuecomment-916035415)), we refer to the method proposed in [HiFiGAN](https://arxiv.org/abs/2010.05646),  finetune Multi-Band MelGAN with the predicted mel-spectrogram from `FastSpeech2`.

The length of mel-spectrograms should align with the length of wavs, so we should generate mels using ground truth alignment.

But since we are fine-tuning, we should use the statistics computed during the training step.

You should first download pretrained `FastSpeech2` model from [fastspeech2_nosil_baker_ckpt_0.4.zip](https://paddlespeech.bj.bcebos.com/Parakeet/released_models/fastspeech2/fastspeech2_nosil_baker_ckpt_0.4.zip) and `unzip` it.

Assume the path to the dump-dir of training step is `dump`.
Assume the path to the duration result of CSMSC is `durations.txt` (generated during the training step's preprocessing).
Assume the path to the pretrained `FastSpeech2` model is `fastspeech2_nosil_baker_ckpt_0.4`.
\
The `finetune.sh` can
1. **source path**.
2. generate ground truth alignment mels.
3. link `*_wave.npy` from `dump` to `dump_finetune` (because we only use new mels, the wavs are the ones used during the training step).
4. copy features' stats from `dump` to `dump_finetune`.
5. normalize the ground truth alignment mels.
6. finetune the model.

Before finetune, make sure that the pretrained model is in `finetune.sh` 's `${output-dir}/checkpoints`, and there is a `records.jsonl` in it to refer to this pretrained model
```text
exp/finetune/checkpoints
├── records.jsonl
└── snapshot_iter_1000000.pdz
```
The content of `records.jsonl` should be as follows (change `"path"` to your ckpt path):
```
{"time": "2021-11-21 15:11:20.337311", "path": "~/PaddleSpeech/examples/csmsc/voc3/exp/finetune/checkpoints/snapshot_iter_1000000.pdz", "iteration": 1000000}
```
Run the command below 
```bash
./finetune.sh
```
By default, `finetune.sh` will use `conf/finetune.yaml` as config, the dump-dir is `dump_finetune`, the experiment dir is `exp/finetune`.

TODO: 
The hyperparameter of `finetune.yaml` is not good enough, a smaller `learning_rate` should be used (more `milestones` should be set).

## Pretrained Models
The pretrained model can be downloaded here:
- [mb_melgan_csmsc_ckpt_0.1.1.zip](https://paddlespeech.bj.bcebos.com/Parakeet/released_models/mb_melgan/mb_melgan_csmsc_ckpt_0.1.1.zip)

The finetuned model can be downloaded here:
- [mb_melgan_baker_finetune_ckpt_0.5.zip](https://paddlespeech.bj.bcebos.com/Parakeet/released_models/mb_melgan/mb_melgan_baker_finetune_ckpt_0.5.zip)

The static model can be downloaded here:
- [mb_melgan_csmsc_static_0.1.1.zip](https://paddlespeech.bj.bcebos.com/Parakeet/released_models/mb_melgan/mb_melgan_csmsc_static_0.1.1.zip)

The ONNX model can be downloaded here:
- [mb_melgan_csmsc_onnx_0.2.0.zip](https://paddlespeech.bj.bcebos.com/Parakeet/released_models/mb_melgan/mb_melgan_csmsc_onnx_0.2.0.zip)

Model | Step | eval/generator_loss | eval/log_stft_magnitude_loss|eval/spectral_convergence_loss |eval/sub_log_stft_magnitude_loss|eval/sub_spectral_convergence_loss
:-------------:| :------------:| :-----: | :-----: | :--------:| :--------:| :--------:
default| 1(gpu) x 1000000| 2.4851|0.71778 |0.2761 |0.66334 |0.2777|
finetune| 1(gpu) x 1000000|3.196967|0.977804| 0.778484| 0.889576 |0.776756 |


Multi Band MelGAN checkpoint contains files listed below.

```text
mb_melgan_csmsc_ckpt_0.1.1
├── default.yaml                  # default config used to train multi band melgan
├── feats_stats.npy               # statistics used to normalize spectrogram when training multi band melgan
└── snapshot_iter_1000000.pdz     # generator parameters of multi band melgan
```
## Acknowledgement
We adapted some code from https://github.com/kan-bayashi/ParallelWaveGAN.

Commit message:

[TTS]Add TTS Paddle-Lite x86 inference (#2667)
* Add export2lite, test=tts

* add tts paddlelite x86 inference, test=tts

* update released_model.md, test=tts

* add paddlelite in setup.py

* update

examples/csmsc/voc3/README.md, after:

# Multi Band MelGAN with CSMSC
This example contains code used to train a [Multi Band MelGAN](https://arxiv.org/abs/2005.05106) model with [Chinese Standard Mandarin Speech Copus](https://www.data-baker.com/open_source.html).
## Dataset
### Download and Extract
Download CSMSC from it's [official website](https://test.data-baker.com/data/index/TNtts/) and extract it to `~/datasets`. Then the dataset is in the directory `~/datasets/BZNSYP`.

### Get MFA Result and Extract
We use [MFA](https://github.com/MontrealCorpusTools/Montreal-Forced-Aligner) results to cut the silence in the edge of audio.
You can download from here [baker_alignment_tone.tar.gz](https://paddlespeech.bj.bcebos.com/MFA/BZNSYP/with_tone/baker_alignment_tone.tar.gz), or train your MFA model reference to [mfa example](https://github.com/PaddlePaddle/PaddleSpeech/tree/develop/examples/other/mfa) of our repo.

## Get Started
Assume the path to the dataset is `~/datasets/BZNSYP`.
Assume the path to the MFA result of CSMSC is `./baker_alignment_tone`.
Run the command below to
1. **source path**.
2. preprocess the dataset.
3. train the model.
4. synthesize wavs.
    - synthesize waveform from `metadata.jsonl`.
```bash
./run.sh
```
You can choose a range of stages you want to run, or set `stage` equal to `stop-stage` to use only one stage, for example, running the following command will only preprocess the dataset.
```bash
./run.sh --stage 0 --stop-stage 0
```
### Data Preprocessing
```bash
./local/preprocess.sh ${conf_path}
```
When it is done. A `dump` folder is created in the current directory. The structure of the dump folder is listed below.

```text
dump
├── dev
│   ├── norm
│   └── raw
├── test
│   ├── norm
│   └── raw
└── train
    ├── norm
    ├── raw
    └── feats_stats.npy
```
The dataset is split into 3 parts, namely `train`, `dev`, and `test`, each of which contains a `norm` and `raw` subfolder. The `raw` folder contains the log magnitude of the mel spectrogram of each utterance, while the norm folder contains the normalized spectrogram. The statistics used to normalize the spectrogram are computed from the training set, which is located in `dump/train/feats_stats.npy`.

Also, there is a `metadata.jsonl` in each subfolder. It is a table-like file that contains id and paths to the spectrogram of each utterance.

### Model Training
```bash
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=${gpus} ./local/train.sh ${conf_path} ${train_output_path}
```
`./local/train.sh` calls `${BIN_DIR}/train.py`.
Here's the complete help message.

```text
usage: train.py [-h] [--config CONFIG] [--train-metadata TRAIN_METADATA]
                [--dev-metadata DEV_METADATA] [--output-dir OUTPUT_DIR]
                [--ngpu NGPU]

Train a Multi-Band MelGAN model.

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --config CONFIG       Multi-Band MelGAN config file.
  --train-metadata TRAIN_METADATA
                        training data.
  --dev-metadata DEV_METADATA
                        dev data.
  --output-dir OUTPUT_DIR
                        output dir.
  --ngpu NGPU           if ngpu == 0, use cpu.
```

1. `--config` is a config file in yaml format to overwrite the default config, which can be found at `conf/default.yaml`.
2. `--train-metadata` and `--dev-metadata` should be the metadata file in the normalized subfolder of `train` and `dev` in the `dump` folder.
3. `--output-dir` is the directory to save the results of the experiment. Checkpoints are saved in `checkpoints/` inside this directory.
4. `--ngpu` is the number of gpus to use, if ngpu == 0, use cpu.

### Synthesizing
`./local/synthesize.sh` calls `${BIN_DIR}/../synthesize.py`, which can synthesize waveform from `metadata.jsonl`.
```bash
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=${gpus} ./local/synthesize.sh ${conf_path} ${train_output_path} ${ckpt_name}
```
```text
usage: synthesize.py [-h] [--generator-type GENERATOR_TYPE] [--config CONFIG]
                     [--checkpoint CHECKPOINT] [--test-metadata TEST_METADATA]
                     [--output-dir OUTPUT_DIR] [--ngpu NGPU]

Synthesize with GANVocoder.

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --generator-type GENERATOR_TYPE
                        type of GANVocoder, should in {pwgan, mb_melgan,
                        style_melgan, } now
  --config CONFIG       GANVocoder config file.
  --checkpoint CHECKPOINT
                        snapshot to load.
  --test-metadata TEST_METADATA
                        dev data.
  --output-dir OUTPUT_DIR
                        output dir.
  --ngpu NGPU           if ngpu == 0, use cpu.
```

1. `--config` multi band melgan config file. You should use the same config with which the model is trained.
2. `--checkpoint` is the checkpoint to load. Pick one of the checkpoints from `checkpoints` inside the training output directory.
3. `--test-metadata` is the metadata of the test dataset. Use the `metadata.jsonl` in the `dev/norm` subfolder from the processed directory.
4. `--output-dir` is the directory to save the synthesized audio files.
5. `--ngpu` is the number of gpus to use, if ngpu == 0, use cpu.

## Fine-tuning
Since there is no `noise` in the input of Multi-Band MelGAN, the audio quality is not so good (see [espnet issue](https://github.com/espnet/espnet/issues/3536#issuecomment-916035415)), we refer to the method proposed in [HiFiGAN](https://arxiv.org/abs/2010.05646),  finetune Multi-Band MelGAN with the predicted mel-spectrogram from `FastSpeech2`.

The length of mel-spectrograms should align with the length of wavs, so we should generate mels using ground truth alignment.

But since we are fine-tuning, we should use the statistics computed during the training step.

You should first download pretrained `FastSpeech2` model from [fastspeech2_nosil_baker_ckpt_0.4.zip](https://paddlespeech.bj.bcebos.com/Parakeet/released_models/fastspeech2/fastspeech2_nosil_baker_ckpt_0.4.zip) and `unzip` it.

Assume the path to the dump-dir of training step is `dump`.
Assume the path to the duration result of CSMSC is `durations.txt` (generated during the training step's preprocessing).
Assume the path to the pretrained `FastSpeech2` model is `fastspeech2_nosil_baker_ckpt_0.4`.
\
The `finetune.sh` can
1. **source path**.
2. generate ground truth alignment mels.
3. link `*_wave.npy` from `dump` to `dump_finetune` (because we only use new mels, the wavs are the ones used during the training step).
4. copy features' stats from `dump` to `dump_finetune`.
5. normalize the ground truth alignment mels.
6. finetune the model.

Before finetune, make sure that the pretrained model is in `finetune.sh` 's `${output-dir}/checkpoints`, and there is a `records.jsonl` in it to refer to this pretrained model
```text
exp/finetune/checkpoints
├── records.jsonl
└── snapshot_iter_1000000.pdz
```
The content of `records.jsonl` should be as follows (change `"path"` to your ckpt path):
```
{"time": "2021-11-21 15:11:20.337311", "path": "~/PaddleSpeech/examples/csmsc/voc3/exp/finetune/checkpoints/snapshot_iter_1000000.pdz", "iteration": 1000000}
```
Run the command below 
```bash
./finetune.sh
```
By default, `finetune.sh` will use `conf/finetune.yaml` as config, the dump-dir is `dump_finetune`, the experiment dir is `exp/finetune`.

TODO: 
The hyperparameter of `finetune.yaml` is not good enough, a smaller `learning_rate` should be used (more `milestones` should be set).

## Pretrained Models
The pretrained model can be downloaded here:
- [mb_melgan_csmsc_ckpt_0.1.1.zip](https://paddlespeech.bj.bcebos.com/Parakeet/released_models/mb_melgan/mb_melgan_csmsc_ckpt_0.1.1.zip)

The finetuned model can be downloaded here:
- [mb_melgan_baker_finetune_ckpt_0.5.zip](https://paddlespeech.bj.bcebos.com/Parakeet/released_models/mb_melgan/mb_melgan_baker_finetune_ckpt_0.5.zip)

The static model can be downloaded here:
- [mb_melgan_csmsc_static_0.1.1.zip](https://paddlespeech.bj.bcebos.com/Parakeet/released_models/mb_melgan/mb_melgan_csmsc_static_0.1.1.zip)

The ONNX model can be downloaded here:
- [mb_melgan_csmsc_onnx_0.2.0.zip](https://paddlespeech.bj.bcebos.com/Parakeet/released_models/mb_melgan/mb_melgan_csmsc_onnx_0.2.0.zip)

The Paddle-Lite model can be downloaded here:
- [mb_melgan_csmsc_pdlite_1.3.0.zip](https://paddlespeech.bj.bcebos.com/Parakeet/released_models/mb_melgan/mb_melgan_csmsc_pdlite_1.3.0.zip)

Model | Step | eval/generator_loss | eval/log_stft_magnitude_loss|eval/spectral_convergence_loss |eval/sub_log_stft_magnitude_loss|eval/sub_spectral_convergence_loss
:-------------:| :------------:| :-----: | :-----: | :--------:| :--------:| :--------:
default| 1(gpu) x 1000000| 2.4851|0.71778 |0.2761 |0.66334 |0.2777|
finetune| 1(gpu) x 1000000|3.196967|0.977804| 0.778484| 0.889576 |0.776756 |


Multi Band MelGAN checkpoint contains files listed below.

```text
mb_melgan_csmsc_ckpt_0.1.1
├── default.yaml                  # default config used to train multi band melgan
├── feats_stats.npy               # statistics used to normalize spectrogram when training multi band melgan
└── snapshot_iter_1000000.pdz     # generator parameters of multi band melgan
```
## Acknowledgement
We adapted some code from https://github.com/kan-bayashi/ParallelWaveGAN.
